<p> "We see three critical differences between programming and software engineering: time, scale, and the trade-offs at play. On a software engineering project, engineers need to be more concerned with the passage of time and the eventual need for change. In a software engineering organization, we need to be more concerned about scale and efficiency, both for the software we produce as well as for the organization that is producing it. Finally, as software engineers, we are asked to make more complex decisions with higher-stakes outcomes, often based on imprecise estimates of time and growth. Within Google, we sometimes say, “Software engineering is programming integrated over time.” Programming is certainly a significant part of software engineering: after all, programming is how you generate new software in the first place. If you accept this distinction, it also becomes clear that we might need to delineate between programming tasks (development) and software engineering tasks (development, modification, maintenance). The addition of time adds an important new dimension to programming. Cubes aren’t squares, distance isn’t velocity. Software engineering isn’t programming."

Titus Winters, Software Engineering at Google </p>

<h3>Comentário</h3>
<p> De modo geral, a engenharia de software e a programação estão relacionados entre si, porém a engenharia de software abrange mais tarefas além da própria programação. O engenheiro de software precisa não apenas desenvolver o programa, como também realizar a manutenção dos códigos quando necessário, ou até mesmo modificá-lo por completo, por isso o tempo é tão importante nesta área.</p>

<h3> Qual é o trade-off em relação ao API </h3>
<p> Neste API, de acordo com a escolha dos requisitos, acredito que o trade-off seria poder dar o controle de acesso pro cliente, podendo guardar os dados por eles criados, a partir do sistema criado pela linguagem de programação escolhida (no caso o Java Desktop juntamente com o SGBD MySQL)</p>
